Alright! In this video, we're going to
talk about your options for installing
MySQL.
The system requirements for MySQL
are really really light. Ideally,
you're going to want to install MySQL on
your local computer. If you have a modern
hardware, it should easily support him.
Modern, I mean. You think the last 10
years is going to handle it. The
operating requirements of MySQL are very
very modest. They recommend a minimum of
256 mega free memory, and to be honest,
if your surfing Facebook in your favorite
browser, that's probably going to use more
memory than MySQL is going to. That
is a minimum amount of memory and it's
just going to be us on the system, so that's
for a single user doing development,
you're going to be just fine as far
as your hardware requirements. Obviously,
I've talked about servers and scaling it
up. If you have dozens or hundreds or
thousands of connections into the
database, you're obviously going to need
much more memory. So that's something
that we can tune and we will look at
that in a much future lesson so when we
start getting into administration type
stuff.
Now, let's talk about
installing MySQL natively, so native
installation. That means that MySQL is
installed on your operating system.  MySQL
supports native installations for all
major operating systems. Ahead in the
course, I'm going to look at installing
MySQL on Windows 10, OS X and Linux.
Each of these are going to have two
sections. I created a QuickStart
because I get a lot of different skill
levels coming through this course. This
is just text instructions of how to
install MySQL. That's just kind of just
the facts so you can get in there,
install it, and move on. Then I'm also
going to do a video lecture where I'll go
through the installation
step-by-step so depending on what you
need, go ahead and do that. This is
kind of an odd section of the course
because go ahead and obviously
if you're running Windows,
don't go watch the Linux videos. Go
ahead and skip to the next session of
course. The whole purpose of this section
of course is just gets you up and
running on MySQL. Then another option
that we can look at is running MySQL
inside of a container. This is
technology that's been around for some
time, but Docker has been on fire the
last few years. Docker is a container
technology, very popular Google like runs
billions of containers probably. I
personally use Docker containers for my
development so this is my personal
choice.
I even have a course about using Docker
for Java developers, very popular course.
I'm not going to be able to get too deep
into the Docker here. If it's something
that you want, please check that out. I do
a deep dive on Docker technology in
that course. Docker is pretty easy to
use. Effectively, you're going to use
pre-built image from Docker hub. Through
a docker command, you'll be able to pull
down that image and run it locally. It
will behave exactly like it just happens
being a container. It's nice and
self-contained that's why I personally
choose it. MySQL is not
going to be installed on my local
operating system. It's in a container so
it's just a nice way to do development.
Depending on your skill level, you
might want to skip this. That's
absolutely fine. That's just my choice.
But if you're a little more comfortable,
give Docker a try. I highly recommend it.